---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "timeplus_stream Data Source - terraform-provider-timeplus"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Timeplus streams are similar to tables in the traditional SQL databases. Both of them are essentially datasets. The key difference is that Timeplus stream is an append-only (by default), unbounded, constantly changing events group.
---

# timeplus_stream (Data Source)

Timeplus streams are similar to tables in the traditional SQL databases. Both of them are essentially datasets. The key difference is that Timeplus stream is an append-only (by default), unbounded, constantly changing events group.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "timeplus_stream" "example" {
  name = "basic_example"
}

output "example_stream" {
  value = data.timeplus_stream.example
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The stream name

### Optional

- `history_ttl` (String) A SQL expression defines the maximum age of data that are persisted in the historical store
- `retention_bytes` (Number) The retention size threadhold in bytes indicates how many data could be kept in the streaming store
- `retention_ms` (Number) The retention period threadhold in millisecond indicates how long data could be kept in the streaming store

### Read-Only

- `columns` (Attributes List) The columns of the stream (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--columns))
- `description` (String) A detailed text describes the stream
- `mode` (String) The stream mode. Options: append, changelog, changelog_kv, versioned_kv. Default: "append"

<a id="nestedatt--columns"></a>
### Nested Schema for `columns`

Read-Only:

- `codec` (String) The codec for value encoding
- `default` (String) The default value for the column
- `name` (String) The column name
- `primary_key` (Boolean) If set to `true`, this column will be used as the primary key, or part of the combined primary key if multiple columns are marked as primary keys.
- `type` (String) The type name of the column
- `use_as_event_time` (Boolean) If set to `true`, this column will be used as the event time column (by default ingest time will be used as event time). Only one column can be marked as the event time column in a stream.
